[ Music ]
>> Lisa Garr: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host
of Gaiam Inspirations.
My guess today Adam C. Hall
achieved what was called the
American Dream.
He was real estate tycoon,
everything in his
life was great.
And then he undertook a
life changing metamorphosis
that ultimately altered his mind
from earth conqueror
to earth keeper.
Welcome to the show Adam.
Thank you for joining me.
>> Adam C. Hall: You bet Lisa.
It's great to be
here with you today.
>> Lisa Garr: What a journey
you've been on, what a journey.
A typical hero's journey,
I guess we could call it.
So, tell us a little
bit about your life
when you are a real estate
tycoon and what led you
into that type of lifestyle?
>> Adam C. Hall: Absolutely,
be more than happy to
and it really was that living
that quintessential
American dream, Lisa.
I had-- I'm a product of
the '60s and '70s and '80s
and it was really all
about what do we achieve.
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Adam C. Hall: What is that
American dream look like.
And so, I went off
to fulfill that dream
that I thought I
was suppose to do.
I married my junior high school
sweetheart, a gorgeous woman
and we have three amazing
lovely daughters together
and the successful
real estate company
and the country club and, you
know, the traveling around
and all those accouterments
of life.
But when I got there something
was missing and I was unhappy.
>> Lisa Garr: Was it the stress
of it all that made you unhappy
or was it-- was it a yearning
inside of you that said,
"There's something more?"
>> Adam C. Hall: You know,
interestingly I actually
thrived on this stress.
>> Lisa Garr: Stress, oh.
>> Adam C. Hall: And I didn't
really enjoy popping the Tums
as much as I did.
There was something that drove
me hard around the excitement
of hard charging the capitalist
word kind of what I refer
to as the predatorily
capitalist world
yet that wasn't what drove me to
it because I was blessed still
to have good health often
times health degenerates
with stress and whatnot.
>> LG: Right.
Right.
>> AH: So, I was fortunate that
that did not occur within me,
something else was occurring
and I was determined to find
out what was that all about.
>> LG: But what did that
feel like, would you wake
up every morning saying,
"OK, back to the daily grind"
but there was no purpose
there, is that what you--
what was that feeling like?
I mean how did you know
something was missing?
>> AH: Well, I was-- like I was
sharing, I was really living
by this law of the jungle and
that is when the sun comes
up in the morning
whether you're a lion
or gazelle you better
run like hell.
And one morning I was
driving down the PCH
in my black Range Rover, on the
phone with me or doing a deal
that got me all upset and a
dog ran in front of the car
and I slammed on the breaks
and my heart almost jumped
out of my chest and I said,
"My God, what is going on?
What is happening here?"
So, it spurred me on
to start to take a look
and investigate what was
that, what can I do about it.
>> LG: What was the-- I mean
that moment that you felt
like what is happening with my
life, what am I really doing?
>> AH: Exactly, well it actually
occurred, I came home later
in the day a little bit early
and I was down on the beach
by myself and the sun was
setting and it was one
of those beautiful sunsets
we have here in California.
And I just weld up in tears.
And I recognize that-- that
I needed to make some changes
in my life and to find out what
really is my greater calling,
you know, what is the
purpose for me being here
because the narcissistic kind
of hard charging life it
wasn't doing it for me.
>> LG: What was your
relationship
like with your family
at the time?
>> AH: It was challenged.
I was very challenged, I'd often
leave before the sun comes up
and everybody gets
up and gets going
and then some evenings I
actually came home awfully late.
So, I was really missing
out on a lot of things
around family life
but ultimately it became
a real issue with my wife
and really became very
challenging and troubling
so it begin a slow slide
into a separation although we
were together but, you know,
these things kind of can be
like a slow dribble and even,
you know, marriage therapy
and all those things sometimes
can help but sometimes not.
>> LG: So, the universe
is giving you,
is delivering you this wake up
calls, the dog, the separation,
this moments that was-- was
really kind of forcing you
to take a deeper look.
>> AH: Yes.
>> LG: So, How did you
actually make that leap?
Where did you go?
>> AH: Well, it's interesting,
that's the big question
because I grew up in like in
the church and not a lot but--
and that didn't have
any answers for me.
I attended with my mom at that
time and it was like, "Really,
what's going on here?"
And I began to read voraciously
kind of east and west modalities
and wisdom teachings
and ultimately really gravitated
towards a lot of teachings
around indigenous
cultures of the Americas
which is Native American
traditions, Mayan traditions,
Incan traditions and
begin to experiencing--
getting to an experience
with that.
So, it was really about
stepping out of the comfort zone
of all the accouterments
that I was leaving
and having to say, "OK.
OK, something kind of
pushing me along-- "
>> LG: Uh-huh.
>> AH: "Hence you're there" and
the willingness to say I've got
to do this because
if I don't it--
I may face some real
health issues or even a loss
of my soul so to speak.
>> LG: You're right.
>> AH: Yeah.
>> LG: Exactly.
>> LG: And then what
happens after that?
So, then, you took a journey.
You went into the woods.
Why particular the
woods called you?
>> AH: Well, it's the
quintessential woods and
but the woods are obviously
analogies and symbolic
for leaving the world
as you know it.
and it kind of goes into the
darker shadows and the lighting
if you can imagine any woods
set the magnificent of them
and into the darkness of it.
And so, that quest, that
vision quest begin with going
out into the desert and
really, the woods of the desert
because you're just exposed
there to the open element
>> LG: Right.
Yeah, yeah.
>> AH: And so, I first went off,
actually I decided that I wanted
to leave at sunrise and I
did on Christmas morning
and I just headed down
the 10 Freeway in LA
and just kept going in the
first stop by stop in Sedona
and then went out into the
deserts and I share a lot
of this fun and adventurous
and moving stories in the book.
>> LG: Yes, yes.
>> AH: Yeah.
>> LG: But this is what
most people are looking
at you right now watching this
going, I could never do that
but it's calling me too.
What would you tell
someone like that?
>> AH: Well, the call
to adventure I believe cannot
be denied and it's just that--
>> LG: No matter what.
>> AH: No matter what.
And so, it's just really
a function of when.
It's a not a matter if
you're going to do it.
It's when you're going to do
it and you can hang around
and spend this life
time and you can show
up the next one and
hear their call.
So, if not now then when?
And so, I said, you
know, now is the time.
>> LG: And so, you took that
journey out towards the desert
and out past into Sedona and
you never really turned back
did you?
[laughs]
>> AH: There was no
looking back Lisa.
>> LG: Yeah.
>> AH: Now, it is funny to say
that because I was actually
can feel in this moment going
down in 10 Freeway looking
in the rearview mirror.
>> LG: Wow.
>> AH: And when I did,
I actually pushed the
accelerator even more.
>> LG: Even more.
>> AH: Yeah.
>> LG: You knew you
weren't going back?
>> AH: No, no.
And I had no idea what
was in front of me either.
>> LG: Right.
>> AH: Other than I knew
that I begin to feel my heart
and to want to explore
the fullness of that.
>> LG: But I'm sure, it
was beating quite hard
because you had so
many things set up.
I mean, you were a major
real estate investor,
I mean developer
in land management
and in corporate real estate and
commercial real estate, right?
>> AH: Yeah, yeah.
>> LG: And in Wall Street,
and all these things
are going for you.
So, what happened to
all of those contexts?
>> AH: Well, first things first
and, you know, ultimately,
I knew that this
call was so loud
which I too had been
ignoring, not listening.
And then when I finally knew
that I needed to take the moment
and listen, I really
heard that inner voice,
the voice that was
calling and speaking to me
and the book shares the
voice that came to me
and said, "You're safe.
You've been here.
It's time to take this journey
and we'll do it together."
And-- but to do it, yeah,
I can't just put you
toe in the water Adam.
You need to really
show up big time, so.
>> LG: Wow.
So, it was really a calling.
It was another voice
that came inside of you.
It was almost your own
or was it another voice.
>> It was another voice and
that voice was given a name
in my book and her name is
Leila [assumed spelling].
And very angelic energy
been whatever you believe
or whatever it means to
you, we all have that voice
and that voice was
very comforting
because it had been
guiding my soul for lifetime
after lifetime and honoring me.
And so, it became
a great teacher
and a great Kalyana
Mitra which is a dear
and noble friend and I--
>> LG: One friend.
>> AH: I have one in
my life today as well
and here name is Lizette
[assumed spelling].
>> LG: Nice, nice.
So, now, when you wrote the
book and it started a movement
so to speak where it
created other people just
as I'm inquiring right now
and people are watching
saying identifying with you.
It created almost an energy
on its own, didn't it?
>> AH: It really has and I'm
excited to say that it-- the--
it really and I know this
may sound difficult Lisa
but it doesn't really have
anything to do with me.
I'm just holding the
greater capacity--
>> LG: Yup.
>> AH: -- of this
indelible truth
and I believe has called me
to embrace my greater humanity
and the great depth of who I am.
So--
>> LG: Wow.
>> AH: -- it's about
transpersonal ecology
and how our ecology and how we
relate to our total environment,
both the outer and the inner
environment and how to bring in
and wed those to sacred
aspects of the human journey?
So, that is really
reaching and touching people
because right now, we certainly
are faced with a lot of daunting
and challenging things.
>> LG: Yes, absolutely.
Have you always been somewhat
of an environmentalist or aware
of our current state
and statistics
in our current environmental
process right now?
>> AH: No, the answer
is no but I was blessed
with my late beloved father who
often took my brothers and I
up into this year as in
enjoy the mountain side,
my wonderful mother always
wanted to explore, you know,
interesting places and
they are always outdoors
and they were always
about the natural world.
So, unconsciously I guess, since
so many ways, I was connecting
and feeling the power of that.
But in terms of really as more
of a traditional activist,
more as a greater student of
the environment, I was not
and that's what was calling.
>> LG: Yeah.
>> AH: We all have
some calling somewhere.
>> LG: Instinct.
Well, you definitely
found out a lot.
We're going to take a look
at a video that explains some
of what Adam discovered.
Take a look at this.
>> AH: OK.
Anyway, tonight, I like to
share with you a little bit
about my journey from
being an earth conqueror
to being an earth
preservationist.
And we're going to talk a
little bit about what I'm doing
but really going to focus a
little bit about what I'm being
because they become
one in the same things.
And so, I invite you
on a journey with me
to hear a little bit about how I
come from Adam 1.0 to Adam 2.0.
And for whatever it's worth.
Anyway, so here's my
front page right now.
It kind of give you a little
glimpse into my inner world--
my inner headline so to
speak and some of the things
that I am really concerned
about, it's happening
on this planet at the moment.
Right now, there's 49 million
Americans that live in poverty,
16.7 million of them
are children.
One in five children each
and everyday in America
at some point in
time goes hungry,
hard to believe,
but true, children.
Two, a few weeks
ago, the Department
of Agriculture released
a study that show
that beehive colonies decline
last winter, 31 percent.
As we know, these little
worker bees are the ones
that pollinate our food.
No food, no bees, no food, my
goodness, pretty serious issue.
As a matter of fact in
California the production
of almonds and that's
declined so dramatically
that prices have nearly
tripled now and this is all
because of a pesticide.
And this pesticide is produced
by the biggest producers a
company called Bear [phonetic].
And these are the people
that brought us poison gas
in World War II and now
we are poisoning our food
and we are poisoning
Mother Nature.
Two, food.
Three, just a couple weeks
ago, some of you probably heard
that scientist for the
first time ever revealed
that CO2 levels
in the atmosphere are now have
reached 400 parts per million
and this is the threshold that
they all said would be the place
where there was no looking back.
You think we've seen
climate change,
we haven't seen nothing yet.
Four, you probably
heard about the plight
of these young ladies, these
young women in the Midwest
that were abducted, I mean
tragically for over a decade.
And no disrespect to them
but for much in my life,
perhaps for decades, I too felt
abducted although the abductor
for me was my own ego.
It was my own narcissistic
self serving predatory
capitalist ways.
Best news of all, the best
news of all that gives me
so much hope and so much
promise for tomorrow.
It's in my-- kind of
the little finer print
and it comes on the
heals of 2012.
And as a matter of fact,
it's not with self help
people want you to hear
and you don't want to be the
last one to get this news
but we are all enlightened.
Whatever that means for
you, we are all enlightened.
Everybody in this room,
everybody in this town,
everybody in this state,
everybody in this great country
of ours and all around the
globe, we are all enlightened.
There's only one problem,
most of us don't know it.
>> LG: So, what do you mean
by that that we don't know
that we're enlightened.
I mean these are
daunting statistics.
We're going to look at
more a little bit later on.
>> AH: Sure.
>> LG: Is it too late?
Are we beyond the
point of return?
>> AH: Well, the answer
is absolutely not,
and but one thing that we are
beyond is living in a lifestyle
in an economy that
is unsustainable.
And ultimately, we will
see a lot of great effects
as it relates to not
only some of the things
that are happening
with climate change.
And let's keep in mind,
climate change isn't just
global warming.
That's what it is for now
but at some point in time,
everything's got to
cool back down again.
And the earth has gone
through this cycle.
>> LG: Right.
>> AH: So, we're not beyond
anything other than that we need
to move beyond the old story.
And what I was sharing
in that short little clip
about being enlightened that
we already are enlightened,
what I found is that is
a natural state of being.
And what occurred for me was
that that I just had in sheath,
I had layered upon
layer of story.
I need more of this and I need
this fixed, a bigger house
and I need to have
these friends, you know,
I need to be somebody but
that wasn't who I truly was.
So, the enlightenment was became
very evident once we begin
to remove a lot of
those impediments.
And I see that in
every human being.
>> LG: Absolutely.
>> AH: We see that.
>> LG: In that state that
you were in with the wanting
to acquire more and have the
bigger house and the status
and so forth, did you feel
in that place that it was--
you were just trapped,
that there was no movement
in that space in
your life, no growth?
>> AH: Yes, and that was part
of coming to that pinnacle
of ultimately success but
it was also felt suffocating
in so many ways because within
me, there was a greater yearning
and I'll never forget on
that vision quest that I went
on in the Indian nation
when I got on a mustang
that have been taken off the
ranch off the Indian nation four
years before and
her name was Angel
and I barely every
ridden a pony.
I rode one at my 7th birthday
over Griffith Park just beyond
the corner for our studio here.
>> LG: Right.
>> AH: And I got on that
pony and begin to ride
and I begin to feel the freedom.
>> LG: Of the wild let's say.
>> AH: Of just-- of the
wild mustang and the idea
that I could make this break
for my own personal liberation
from this old story and all
the wounds and the hurts
that I've been carrying
of my lifetime,
or lifetime for that matter.
>> LG: Yeah.
Lifetimes, what a great
analogy, what a great analogy.
So, in that space though,
when you got into that horse
and using that analogy,
you found that sense
of enlightenment
or joy within you
that you believe every
single person has.
>> AH: Yes, very much so.
It's really just a
matter of tapping into it
and allowing a surrender
because ultimately, you know,
the greater power of nature
that really came forth is
that everything works so--
it's so in symbiosis and
everything is supporting,
everything else in nature.
And even in its deafened demise
it has support for other parts
of the entire ecosystem and of
course here I was not living
in a harmony with the natural
law and the natural way
that the universe works.
So, it was time for me to
get into that natural world
and live harmonically with it.
>> LG: I can see how this
has become a movement
and I can see despond on
many other people who are
in the same quest that you
are to get back to something
that is its sustainable,
that is sustainable.
And we actually have, well, you
started the EarthKeeper Alliance
and this is something that we
have a clip about right now
that you can take a look at.
Take a look at this clip and
we'll go into a little bit more
about the EarthKeeper Alliance.
>> AH: OK, yeah, let's do that.
[ Music ]
>> Male: [Background Music]
We invite you on a journey
to fulfill your legacy and be
a part of something greater
than yourself, to enjoy
the land and all its gifts.
Welcome to the EarthKeeper
Alliance.
Let me introduce you
to the lead visionary
of this wonderful campaign.
>> AH: Hi, I'm Adam
Hall, Founding Steward
of the EarthKeeper Alliance.
After 22 years in the real
estate land development
business, I woke up and
realize that the old paradigm
of maximizing land development
rights was not sustainable.
>> Male: With a group
of dedicated leaders,
we came up with a
way to give back.
We call it Undevelopment.
Undevelopment is taking large
tracks of land that is slated
for development and
restoring them back
to their natural state
permanently preserving
the ecosystem.
We recently conserved 90 percent
of the Red Tail Ranch located
in Big Sur California.
We reduce the development
rights nearly in half.
It will forever remain wild.
>> AH. Not long ago I was
living the picture perfect life
but guess what, I was unhappy.
I lived by what I now
know as a great myth,
the law of the jungle.
When the sun comes up whether
you're a lion or gazelle,
you better run like hell.
Eat or be eaten.
Henry David Thoreau
had it right.
In wilderness is the
preservation of the world.
What I found exploring the
Amazon jungle and the wilderness
of Big Sur was the
preservation of myself.
An EarthKeeper is one
who tends to our planet,
people and honors the
sacredness of our humanity.
In order to be an
EarthKeeper I realized
that I must first
clean up my own garden.
I wrote the EarthKeeper
to share the rawness
of my humanity words and all.
Each of us has a gift.
Each of us plays a vital
role on the planet.
We are love and loved.
We are people of
destiny not merely fate.
My intentions for the
book are to inspire others
to realize the magnificence
of their being.
We are after all the ones
we've been waiting for.
>> LG: OK, so the
concept of undevelopment,
what is that, what
does that mean?
>> AH: Well, it's an outgrowth,
I'd like to share a little
backdrop and a root kind
of the roots of that, Lisa.
It really is an outgrowth of
the journey that I went on
and we were actually just
talking a little bit about that
because ultimately I had to
surrender that old story.
I had to let it go and let it
die away as a matter of fact.
And in order to do
that, I essentially was
about un-developing my
life, not developing more,
not about trying to what
is this, what is that,
trying to understand things
from a real linear
left brain perspective
because that was only
creating more questions
or more confusions.
But my teachings and experience
that I had was there was
something really powerful
that could happen
instantaneously that occurred
for me when I was in a process
of un-developing story and past
and wound so when I would visit
parts of my life like when I was
on fire as a 12-year-old
young man playing with fire
in the playground, you know, all
the things you're not supposed
to do and caught on fire,
ultimately that created a
deep psychological wounding
in my life and that never
was healed but it was there.
It was kind of filed
away in the drawer.
So, all the way going to that
place an un-developing story.
>> LG: I see.
>> AH: It was a process
of allowing a great
healing and releasing it.
And in the process of
releasing came the liberation
and the freedom from that story,
and then ultimately
allowed room--
>> LG: Yes.
>> AH: For something
else to come in
and that something else was the
creative power of the universe.
>> LG: So, you took your energy
back from many of your stories
and use that energy towards
a greater good essentially.
>> AH: I like how you said that.
You took back that
story because ultimately
that story was not serving me.
>> LG: Right.
>> AH: And often times
unconsciously and no clue.
>> LG: Like reclaimed water.
I mean you get to reclaim
that energy and bring it
into something that's
greater and good.
>> AH: Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
>> LG: So, the alliance
then formed
around many different people,
the EarthKeeper Alliance,
how did that form?
>> AH: Well, it came about
as I came back from the woods
and it was like what do I do?
I'm hearing the world.
>> LG: Right.
>> AH: Should I-- wait a second,
I don't want to live in a TV.
>> LG: OK.
>> AH: I don't want
to live in an Ashram,
nothing wrong with any of that.
>> LG: Right.
>> AH: That's all cool stuff
but that was what I was yearning
to do 'cause I felt the
greater good of my own life
and my life expression would
be best in a place of service,
be best in a place to show
up for the greater good.
Of course not only of my
own personal life and that
of my family but to
show up in a world
about something I really
cared about and the gift
of the environment and
mother nature that I received
out in the wilderness.
I received-- every single day I
figured the least I could do was
to honor her and to do work
that would support a greater
awareness and the power
of our own ecology to
connect with the environment.
And I believe this is something
that it can effectuate the
kind change and the kind
of things we need to
do and humanity to deal
with the things that
we're facing.
So, we came back and I founded
the EarthKeeper Alliance
and a new paradigm around
real estate undevelopment
to limit development.
I'm still a capitalist.
I still enjoy making the book
and it's just not a matter
of doing it off somebody
else's back, and about doing it
in consort with the earth.
>> LG: Explain that
a little bit more.
>> AH: Well, it's really
about what we do and kind
of give you kind of the
meat and potatoes of it
so to speak was it's the
acquiring a track of land.
We did that in Big Sur
as a matter of fact.
And which is a more of
this piece of property
that went fallen into a
greater state of disrepair.
>> LG: Uh-huh.
>> AH: And it had development,
rights and development
potentials associated with that.
And my partner and
myself decided, well,
let's do some conservation work.
Let's preserve the property.
Let's clean it up first of all.
Let's recultivate the land,
replant the land, rejuvenate
and repurpose the land.
>> LG: What was it designated
for, the development?
>> AH: It was-- it had
development rights on
and so it ultimately could have
been built into several types
of homes on this very
special sacred property,
actually Indian property.
So, in the conservation
easements,
they allow for protection in
perpetuity, into the other time
but we kept enough development
right that would allow us
to have some further development
so it could still be
a profitable endeavor.
>> LG: Interesting.
So, you kind of combined both
where you could still build
on the land to make it
sustainable to the people
and to the area around you
but you also preserved a certain
part of the land that needs
to just be undeveloped.
>> AH: Yes.
>> LG: And do both.
>> AH: Exactly, you do both
so it's kind of a hybrid.
In other words, well, we're
doing something for profit
yet at the same time we're
balancing it with a social good,
something that is
socially beneficial
to the community, to the planet.
And so, it's creating that
more harmonic balance to speak
between human imprint and
what is natural to the earth.
>> LG: And you also do this
in various parts of the world.
I understand we have a picture
here of a place in Hawaii
that you're also doing--
preserving a certain
amount of the coast.
What island is this on?
>> AH: This is on the Big
Island in South Dakota.
This is an amazing
piece of property, Lisa.
And a dear friend of mine came
to me a very large developer
and was involved in this
project and still is.
And this project is on
60,000 acres and has
over 4-1/2 miles
of ocean frontage.
It happens to be home to
what they say is the largest
historical petroglyph
site in all of Polynesia.
>> LG: Wow.
>> AH: Amongst a lot of endanger
species and they spent millions
and millions of dollars
developing plants
to build thousands of
homes, hotels, golf courses,
a commercial airstrip.
>> LG: Wow.
>> AH: But ultimately through
a confluence of great events,
not only change in
economy but my--
our engagement
at the EarthKeeper Alliance
were effectuating a greater
conservation orientation to
this very special piece of land.
>> LG: I've been to that area.
Yes, there are original
petroglyphs on the rocks there.
>> AH: Yeah, yeah.
>> LG: Are you preserving
all of that?
There's--
>> AH: Yeah, all of that.
And so, we're in the midst
of really defining how
that will look and where
it will go in the future.
But the key is just
where effectuating
that change right
now and looking
at what is the best outcome,
how can we create a preservation
of this property, the
restoration of some
of those endangered type
of habitats that are there.
>> LG: So, how is that going
over with the developers,
with the people who've invested
all these millions of dollars
into developing this
area or the plants?
>> AH: Yeah, and well, I
think that's a great question
in general, because ultimately
the standard in the industry
like all industries
have certain standards,
standard in the real
estate industry, Lisa,
is the highest best
use for a piece
of land is the maximum amount of
entitlements that you can cram
on a piece of property.
>> LG: I see.
So, how high you can go?
How-- yes?
>> AH: All that kind of
stuff because ultimately
that effectuates the economics.
So, interestingly our
paradigm is shifting
that to have a greater
understanding
of a new paradigm that's now
involving amongst developers.
And we're having this
conversation with developers
because obviously we can
effectuate change in everywhere
and that that's just
not feasible or possible
but at least we can
have the conversation
and the conversation
really is how can we look
at a new paradigm
for this industry?
How can we look at balancing
the greater good of open space
of the land, of biodiversity
and have that be a creative
to value, have that
become a plus to value
and really cool the
Wall Street Journal came
out with an article
not more than,
I think it was six weeks ago
or so, that showed a study
that when we do-- when
developers do conservation work
in open space work it
actually increases the value
of the remaining
property by 23 percent.
So, that's--
>> LG: Well--
>> AH: -- that's a positive.
>> LG: But if you are-- I mean I
know a particular airport that's
built on the Native
American burial ground.
And so, in order to have,
you know, still show respect
for that specific area and the
bridge they built they have
Native American music playing
and pictures and so forth,
but that doesn't still
do justice to those
that were buried there,
that were, you know,
in that part of the land.
I mean can you ever really
justify building on those types
if there's a very, very,
very, popular resort in Hawaii
that was again built
on Native land--
>> AH: Yeah.
>> LG: -- that was
fought against for years,
but it's still got
put into that area.
So, how do you do
this right, Adam?
>> AH: Well, that's really a
good point, because a matter
of fact in Ecuador we
have a similar situation,
we were chatting a little bit
about what the president
recently release some
of the most, you know,
pristine land on the planet.
The greatest biodiversity exist
in this area to oil drilling.
So-- and it's a very tough
call, but ultimately what I
like to say and especially
with these examples
that you just mentioned is you
can't mess with what is sacred
to other communities and
other tribes on this planet.
So, in these situations
in particularly
that you're referencing
there should be absolutely no
development whatsoever as it
pertains to things that are--
is important as burial grounds
and these other type of things.
But not withstanding
that my sense is,
is if there is going
to be development.
There is that could
be extremely limited.
And the impact of the
keyword is, what is the impact
of the development overall?
>> LG: Right.
>> AH: How many people
are coming?
What are the trips that
are required there?
How much carbon needs
to actually go in
and to creating what is there.
>> LG: Right.
>> AH: And when we
look at those type
of numbers it's pretty minimal.
It needs to be minimal.
So, I'm an advocate
and I'm a minimalist.
>> LG: Yeah, you'd have to be.
It's a very fine line
and we're talking
about the Ecuador situation
where the oil drilling
could indeed create profits
that would help reduce the
violence and the poverty levels
and these particular
regions of Ecuador.
But, yet the same time how
do you prevent that money
from going to the select
few and to-- that 1 percent.
I mean how do you control it?
So, you have a big job
ahead of you here [laughs],
but these are the types of
conversations that are important
to pay attention to, because
without these conversations then
we have situations that
we're about to take a look
at for example the picture that
we have up right now or the--
is the earth basically
what I see is reacting
to these types of developments.
The seismic monitor that we have
here are the amount of shifts
that are occurring in our
earth right now as we speak.
>> AH: Yeah.
>> LG: Tell me a
little bit about this.
>> AH: Well, absolutely
and interestingly,
one of the headlines over
the last couple of days,
I'm glad you brought this
up is that there seems
to be earthquakes
happening in Midwest
that many feel are related
to fracking activities
which is really a process of
a very, very intense process
and I'm not here to have the
discussion right or wrong
or debate fracking but what
we are realizing in the point
that you brought
up appropriately
so is our activities do effect
the earth and when we recognize
that the earth and I are
one as the Buddha did
and the earth is my witness
and ultimately we
should hid the advise
that the earth is
asking us to look at,
not that we can control it, not
that we can save this planet.
That's not the point, the
point is let's make sure we're
addressing seismic activities
and other types of activities.
>> LG: Well I mean, take
for example the fracking
conversation.
I love to have that conversation
from Ken [assumed spelling].
I mean, what-- those types
of drilling and that type
of activity is happening
no matter what it seems.
No matter what farms, no
matter what eco systems
or culture exist in
that particular area.
So, what do-- what do we do
when we have this
types of examples here.
Here's another example
of the global sea surface
temperature increasing
from these types of
developments that are happening
on pristine land and so forth.
Can we do anything about it?
Are we headed in this direction?
I really want to know.
>> AH: Well.
It is the question of our time.
>> LG: Right.
>> AH: Because the
environment is the elephant
in the living room
whether we like it or not.
>> LG: And I don't know if we're
going to answer it in this hour.
But let's get some
suggestions around this though,
because that makes-- personally
makes me feel powerless
when I look this
types of [inaudible],
what are we going
to look at here?
>> AH: Yeah, we're looking
at global catastrophe
on a mass scale because it
affects our entire weather
patterns and all think what
a powerful things would come
out of this as a result of that
we sought with Sandy in New York
or be seen in another
places around the world.
But your question and I want
to get to that and address
that real quickly because
ultimately we feel as mankind
as human kind that we have
the right, the entitlement
to be the conquerors
of this planet
and we're seen there
effect of that and it seems
to be even more rapid
in particular.
In China, the numbers are
very, very distressing.
In India, very distressing and,
you know, it's their time now,
they believe to have material
wealth and prosperity.
So, the thing that we can do,
the thing that we can do each
of us can do right now.
>> LG: Yes.
>> AH: No need to wait
is to really attend
to our greater own
personal ecology.
How is it that we are
attending to our lives,
how is it attending
to what-- how--
what we're doing in the
world today and ultimately
as what I found, aligning
with my own personal ecology,
aligning my own personal
humanity with the environment,
with mother earth, gives me--
gave me a greater
respect in honoring
of this magnificent planet.
So, to effectuate that change
I believe it begins right here.
I couldn't do anything until
I cleaned up my own garden
because I was polluting it.
>> LG: What did you
do to clean that up?
You journey as part of it.
>> AH: Yeah.
>> LG: But I mean have
you grown your own garden?
What types of things
could you suggest to us?
>> AH: Well, you know,
it's funny you say
that because we are growing
our garden in Big Sur
but we haven't had a
chance to get into what
where we are right now,
but we are very active.
We have a 501C3 called urban
gardens and my wife and I--
refer to my wife, she is
my goddess, we're partners.
But we are educating
youth in inner cities.
So, it's about creating gardens
even if they're just small pots
of land, whether it's in your
front yard or your back yard
and we're working to create a
curriculum right now as we speak
to help stewards that are out in
the universe out in the planet
to help them to educate
youth and educate families
in communities to ensure
that we're not beholding
to the Monsantos of the
world or the corporate world
of food and agriculture.
>> LG: Yes.
I mean that's a very good point.
We have some statistics
here that show
on this particular
moving picture of the--
you'll start to see
in this picture here,
the heading up of the polar caps
there if you could explain this
as it goes through the years.
>> AH: Yeah, exactly.
Well, so what's happening with
the rise of the last slide
that global water
temperature those trend lines,
it is effectuating a greater
change in the upper atmosphere.
And ultimately as we burn
off the layers of protection
that the earth has in a
most simplistic terms,
the greater rise of heat.
And then ultimately,
we have an effect
of in the cities
basically that is going
on like an island effect
essentially that traps off
of the heat that city street.
So, they trap heat
within the context
of the atmosphere raising
temperatures thereby--
>> LG: Correct.
>> AH: We're seeing
these rapid ice melts.
Rapid, rapid ice melts around
the planet at the moment.
So, the trend line on
that is going to continue
because we kind of reach the
pretty much as a tipping point
as I pointed out in
the video earlier
about 400 parts per million.
That was the point where
scientist said where carbon
and carbon dioxide
levels at that level,
there was no turning back.
So now, it's-- what
do we do about it?
How do we effectuate
that personal change
within our own lives so that
we can with in greater balance
with earth that is
undergoing these changes.
>> LG: So, how can something
like technology help us
with the increase that we see so
much in this age of technology,
can that help us or hurt us?
>> AH: Well good question.
Technology is not an indult.
But the fact of the matter is,
technology has brought us a lot
of the great information
that we have.
And--
>> LG: Yes.
>> AH: -- which is really neat.
And-- but what technology is
showing us is it's revealing
that the melting of the
polar ice caps, right--
>> LG: Right.
>> AH: It's happening much more
dramatically than we thought.
>> LG: Yes.
>> AH: The rising of sea levels
is happening much more dramatic
than we thought.
So, it gives us a small window
to take adjustment
and take action.
Now, is those actions being
taken by our political leaders
and governments around
the world?
No, not really.
There's talk and there
are things happening.
But the fact of the matter, it's
insufficient, it's inadequate
and it is not enough
at this time.
So, technology is a powerful
tool but it's not an indult.
And I believe anybody
that really is sensing
that the technology can save
us is limiting their belief
in putting a lot of faith in
technology and new technology
and coming technologies.
>> LG: It's-- it takes away
from your personal
responsibility as well.
However, it does show
what we're looking at.
So, this particular side that
we're looking at next shows
through the use of technology,
where we've come from
and potentially where
we're going.
So, let's take a
look at this one.
This is the starting
back in the 1800s
of our current temperatures.
I mean the temperatures at that
time and then going forward.
How does-- how do you
capture something like this?
>> AH: Well, these
are all models.
Let's keep that in mind.
And models have limited
credibility in their own rights.
So, we have to put
things in context.
But not withstanding we can
make these various assumption
and these models that
can help us to determine
where we might see, for example.
Where the sea legs
will rise a foot?
Well, that'll cover in
Bangladesh, for example.
So, the neat thing
about models is
that it can really show
us where we're going.
So, in some ways, the road maps.
And should we-- the
question is, are we going
to read the road signs or
we're just going to ignore them
and keep going full speed ahead.
>> LG: Right.
So, this is how technology
can help us.
>> AH: Yes.
>> LG: And then we could
see that, you know,
the changes that have
happened over the years
and where we've come
from, where we're going.
I think it's important
to continue look at this
because it shows through
this projection here
of how the temperatures
are increasing.
How long would it take for
those-- for us to, you know,
to tip out at this range.
I mean, where is this heading?
I mean you'll see this
going into, you know, th--
what is it, the year 2100?
>> AH: Yes.
>> LG: And you'll see how the
top of the ice caps are going
to be completely melted.
What would happen
to our environment
if those ice caps are gone?
>> AH: We would see
massive storms on a scale
that we can't even
imagine today.
>> LG: Storms?
>> AH: Storms.
And ultimately what would
occur will be things
like massive dust
falls and famine.
And much of the planet
could be covered--
much of the planet that's
habitable now could be covered
in water and certainly much of
the biodiversity would die off.
And of course humanity
itself is quickly looking
at becoming an endangered
specie themselves.
So, it's important that we're
addressing these things not
in debate about whether
something is happening or not
or it's going to
freeze over again.
It's really addressing how are--
how we relate and operate
our own personal lives
that we engage as a community
and as a planet and as a country
for example with these issues.
And do not wait to address
these type of issues, Lisa,
because ultimately
we're going to need
to find a greater harmony.
The earth is just
balancing itself.
And so should we.
>> LG: Yes, yes.
>> AH: And heed that
this great wisdom.
>> LG: And this will happen
beyond maybe our lifetime.
>> AH: Yes.
>> LG: But it will happen on our
children's children's lifetime.
>> AH: Yeah, yeah.
>> LG: And in-- and that's what
we're doing now is what's going
to make that difference.
Are there any types of
innovations in technology
that would halt this
type of devastation
that we just took a look at?
>> AH: Well, I-- I'm an
optimist by nature but skeptical
when it comes to
activities like this.
For example, Cantrells
[phonetic], you know,
we see that extensively
big brothers decided
that this is beneficial and
this is going to help, you know,
induce greater weather patterns
and all these other
types of things.
So when we get into genetically
modifying things or tinkering,
we are messing with something
that is often very troubling.
We're seeing that in the
genetically modified [inaudible]
right now.
>> LG: Right yes.
>> AH: And primarily
in our food.
But it's also another
[inaudible]
that we don't even know,
I'm into sustainable
forestry for example.
And--
>> LG: Right.
>> AH: -- there are
aiding forest companies
that are all about GMO trees.
And so, we are starting
to tinker in ways
that ultimately are going
to have some serious
effects ostensibly
for the betterment of all.
But what we're finding
from GMO modified foods is
that wait a second,
some of the pest,
their back, they're stronger.
>> LG: Yes.
>> AH: And so, there's all kinds
of things and I'm no scientist.
But it's-- but it's pretty
simple to say, wait a second,
is this where we
want to be tinkering?
And if we want to tinker
with certain things then we--
then we better make certain, A,
we know exactly what our end
game is and B, it should be
with the absolute transparency
in understanding of the--
of the masses and of people
that are going to be impacted
by this type of things.
Otherwise it's a non-starter.
>> LG: So what is a GMO tree?
I'm trying to figure that out,
what is the-- what is it do?
>> AH: I learned this
recently because I was involved
in a very large land
acquisition of which I was bid
out by a big timber company.
And they be-- they out bid
me by several million dollars
on a 7,000 acre parcel
in Northern California.
And I called them up and I
said, "I heard you got the bid.
OK. And I want to know that I'm
here that we could do something
around sustainable forestry."
And the head of the
company said to me, "Adam,
we just clear cut trees and we
are the leaders in replanting
with genetically
modified trees."
I have never heard
of a genetically
modified tree in my life.
And it's not well
known but ultimately,
it's about growing trees faster.
So, they can be reharvested not
in 80 years which is a typical--
>> LG: Right.
>> AH: -- life cycle of a
tree, of a forest, of a tree--
>> LG: Does it produce
the same amount of--
I mean what is it do--
growing a tree faster?
Is there a downside to
something like that?
>> AH: Well, you know,
I don't have the answers
because I'm not the scientist.
>> LG: Right, right.
>> AH: However, I don't
think they have the kind
of answers either.
Because how do we know that
the symbiosis that occurs
with trees still occurs which
is-- which creates our oxygen--
>> LG: Right.
>> AH: -- including--
how do we know
that photosynthesis
is still occurring
within these organisms?
And we just don't know
because we tinkered with it
and we don't know over
time how that will be.
And this is pretty much a
secret type of hidden space
and there's a lot
of these going on.
A lot of these stuff happening.
>> LG: Yes.
>>AH: Nobody knows
anything about,
so I think it's time
to open our eyes--
>> LG: In terms of
answers and solutions,
I mean there's forest.
We don't see forest popping up
all over the place right now,
however, that's what we're
going to start to see.
>> AH: Yeah.
>> LG: This is probably
a new process.
>> AH: Yes, that you know what,
after lighting up the sky,
you know, healing a nice purple
color at night, you know,
we're going to have to really
go, well, that looks cool
but nope, can't do that.
>> LG: Neon tress-- all
right, so what are some
of the other things that we
can do other than technologies
and innovations that
are happening out there
that we might not know about?
What can we do, I believe
the power is always
in the hands of the people.
And if we can control what's
happening in our government,
what we can control what's
happening in our back yards
and with our communities
and with our environments
that we live in.
>> AH: Yes.
>> LG: So, what types
of things do you do
in your living environment?
>> AH: Well, just in level what
you said and I just ditto that,
ditto that, ditto that
because it really is
about that effectuating
greater change is certainly
political change.
We've seen that time and time
again just hitting our heads
even the environmentalist,
even the NGO's
which are Non-government
Operations that are really all
about supporting
ostensibly good cause.
They've done great work
but the time has come
that we must take it
within upon ourselves
to effectuate this
change in our community.
In our--
>> LG: Yes, yes.
>> AH: In your own garden
where there is food,
you want vibrant food
and you want real food,
you can grow that in your yard.
You can go down to
support your local farmer
and your local community.
These are the people that
are really creating a
greater vibrancy.
And it's not just
the health of it.
But it's also the vitality
in the regenerative nature
of connecting with earth.
So, we're finding getting
people in connecting them
with the earth, creating
a greater awareness
around the earth is--
is an essential factor and
then I keep coming back to it.
It's ultimately really
are we doing our own work
and are we saving ourselves
in finding a greater truth
of our greater connectivity
to the oneness of it all
and the fun of it all.
>> LG: Are we doing
the inner work?
>> AH: Yes.
>> LG: Is what you mean by that?
Yes. I also believe
that it's important
to educate our children
and to bring them back
to the beautiful
concepts around nature.
And as you said,
nature is attempting
to balance itself right now
through what we're seeing
with our-- our global
temperature rise.
But bringing back
education of nature back
into the environments because
there is definitely information
about technology
in our educational
environments right now.
>> AH: Yeah.
>> LG: But not so much
about bringing nature back.
And I understand that you
have a friend whose pictures
that we're about to show here.
And there's many,
many more of these.
But what was his name?
Lawrence [assumed spelling]?
>> AH: No, Laurent
[assumed spelling].
>> LG: Laurent?
>> AH: Yes, beautiful name.
>> LG: And Laurent --
what was his last name?
>> AH: Well, he's
not-- was not a friend
but he is somebody I came
across in this magnificent world
of internet and whatnot.
And these are indelible shots
and this dear man was killed
recently a few years back ago.
I don't know all
these circumstances
of it was in South America.
And whether and how we was on
assignment or whatever it was.
And just to honor him and his
great work and the magnificent
of those that really care
about our greater ecology
in connecting us to the truth
of who we really are
and he really did.
>> LG: Yes.
So, Laurent Shuavel
[assumed spelling].
>> AH: Shuavel, that's right.
>> LG: Is his name
and there's some of --
I mean I think if this is really
an important thing to so is
to take a look at these
photos are really take
in what nature is to us.
And more of these are
available on line.
But this is a beautiful
picture, I don't know
if this is wife or not.
But he was a photo journalist.
This is some of the CKs and
some of the beautiful things
that nature designs just to
see-- that with a great angle.
His talent was-- was these
photos and the perspectives
that he pulls us into
with his particular type
of photo journalism which I
think is absolutely beautiful.
I don't know where this is.
This is another beautiful
thing of God's paint brush,
she's taking from the same paint
brushes building this designing
this gorgeous flowers
and the same
as the shell around an animal.
It's a wonderful part
of our ecosystem.
I jut picked a few of these out.
Here's our beautiful
pollinators.
>> AH: Yes, it looks like
a good meal there going on.
>> LG: I know and it's going
to take that to the next place
in [inaudible], I mean the
bee population is something
that we have got to address.
And you can-- you can-- there's
a lot of great organizations
that teach you how to grown
your own bees in the backyard.
>> AH: Yes, become
your own bee keeper.
>> LG: Backyard bee keepers?
>> AH: Yes, but we must
attend to bee pollination,
the dye off a bees and our
pollinators on this planet
because ultimately no bees,
no pollinators, no food.
>> LG: Right, absolutely.
And that's a great picture
because we were look could
ever see that with a naked eye.
>> AH: Yeah, exactly.
>> LG: And you must have had
some type of microscopic lens
in his camera but to be
able to really see that
and to capture that
is a gift to us.
>> AH: Yes.
>> LG: And a piece
of education as well
to show how our bees really
do pollinate our food supply
and not just sting,
most people would think.
This is a great picture that
I show because it reminds me
of what we are approaching.
Is it feels like we're just and
ant to a giant bowl of water.
>> AH: Yeah.
>> LG: That is so massive to us.
But yet this little
ant can still push this
and we can still
make this happen.
We can still make it work.
>> AH: We-- we can do it.
>> LG: Yup.
>> AH: We definitely can do it.
>> LG: And that we can handle
five or 10 times our body weight
of what it is that
we're approaching.
>> AH: Or more.
>> LG: This is what-- I'
chose this picture just
because it's what
we're looking at it.
The tip of the iceberg they
we're looking at right now.
What an incredible-- how do
you get a picture like this?
>> AH: Just-- just
totally still and it looks
like we can still
move this titanic
that maybe heading towards this.
>> LG: Yes, free standing.
>> AH: Yes, indeed.
>> LG: Absolutely.
Here's another one that I loved
because it's the ants
building a bridge.
And it's the way that they--
they work in their community.
So, they build bridges
between lands,
the environments something that
you don't think is possible
to do, you can actually do
through the power of people.
And I think that, you know,
answer a wonderful example
of that because they-- they
not only move 10 times their
body weight.
But they build bridges and they
can move entire communities.
>> AH: And-- and we
can build a bridge
between our outer
and inner world.
>> LG: This is true.
And also a bridge
to-- to see what--
what you're doing is quite often
walking between the two worlds
of major development
and conservation
and preservation
at the same time.
>> AH: Yes.
>> LG: And you are constantly
walking on that bridge.
So, that's a good
kind of analogy
of what you're doing as well.
This is-- this is great.
>> AH: You got to love that one.
>> LG: Yes, because
it's-- it's faith.
>> AH: Please send down the
nut, I'll take it, anything.
>> LG: Please protect
our environment.
>> AH: Let me back in.
>> LG: Yes, but this
is what our--
our entire culture is built
on is faith, it's on that--
just looking up to the
gods and saying help us
and deliver what we need.
And help us find the
solutions here and create peace
and harmony and whatever it
is that we can create, so.
>> AH: Yes.
>> LG: So, I think that you're
a peace maker on this planet,
I thank you so much
for joining me--
>> AH: Thank you for having me.
>> LG: -- in this hour and all
that you're doing good luck.
>> AH: Thank you
very much, Lisa,
I appreciate being
here with all of you.
>> LG: Yes.
And then there's ways that we
can support you as well by going
to the website, it's the
EarthKeeper Alliance website?
>> AH: Yes you can, feel
free to check it out.
>> LG: Yes, absolutely.
>> AH: Absolutely.
>> LG: Well, thank you
again Adam C. Hall is guess
if you want to watch a replay of
the interview with Adam C. Hall
and share with your
friends, go to gaiamtv.com
and then 'till next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[ Music ]